# Vocabulary on Gen AI

**Terms**

1. **Generative AI** - is an artificial neural network that is created by the way of  generating new words. It is learnt by lots of data and generate new original content depending on what it is fed by. 
2. **Text-to-video model** - is a type of Gen AI that uses natural languages models to create a requested video. There are often used text prompts to generate a correct video clips. 
3. **Deepfake** - is a very realistic video, image or audio that imitates a real person, photo or voice. It is also created with the help of Gen AI.  
4. **Hallucination** - is an incorrect and false information generated by AI. It usually happens because of not enough trainings or by low quality datasets.  
5. **Knowledge base** - is a knowledge box where information is gathered only for specific purposes. Many IT support companies use such knowledge bases to orient their customers.   
6. **Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)** - is an approach to search for more information from external sources. This way the given information will be more accurate and up to date. It is also a learning from actual data. 
7. **Grounding** - is a process of connecting a model's output to correct sources in order to make accurate, relevant responses. This process helps to avoid hallucinations. 
8. **Latency** - is a time delay between an AI system receiving an input and producing an output. This quality  is very important user experience. 
9. **Fine-tuning** - is an adaptation process of pretrained AI model to specific tasks. FT training is not time consuming as a normal training, instead it just learns how to respond to special questions. 
10. **Automatic summarization** - is an approach to shorten long texts such as articles, books, documentations to compact, universal text summary where all main ideas are gathered together.
11. **Prompt engineering** - is a process of creating and managing words or texts to help AI give a correct and high quality outputs. The better the prompt you give the better answer you get. 
12. **Tokens** - are units of symbols like words, punctuations, part of words etc. Theses units are processed by AI to understand human language. Important to note that tokens are not the same as words. 
13. **Temperature** - is a parameter that predicts the accuracy of prompt responses. The higher the temperature the less accurate the answer is. 
14. **Embedding** - is a way to represent texts in numbers (vectors) or list of numbers so that computer can understand the close meaning words. Related to vectorization, but not the same.
15. **Evaluation metrics** - are the numbers that show how well an AI model performed the task. There are precision, recall, accuracy etc.             